>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JANUARY 4:
FUNERAL SERVICES FOR THE SECOND
OF TWO MURDERED NEW YORK CITY
POLICE OFFICERS.
THE LATEST ON THE SEARCH FOR
THAT DOWNED AIRASIA JETLINER.
LAWMAKERS RETURN TO WASHINGTON
WITH REPUBLICANS NOW IN CHARGE
OF BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS.
WHAT'S NEXT?
AND DEMONSTRATORS CHANTING
"BLACK LIVES MATTER."
A FORMER POLICE OFFICER AND A
LOCAL CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER
EXPLORE TENSIONS BETWEEN POLICE
AND THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
BAD WEATHER CONTINUES TO SLOW
THE EFFORTS OF DIVERS SEARCHING
FOR THE WRECKAGE OF AIRASIA
FLIGHT 8501 AND FOR THE BODIES
OF MOST OF THE 162 PEOPLE WHO
WERE ON THE PLANE WHEN IT WENT
DOWN LAST SUNDAY.
>> (translated): SOME RESCUERS
TRIED TO DIVE BUT WERE HAMPERED
BY VISIBILITY AND UNDERWATER
CURRENTS THAT FORCED US TO
SUSPEND OPERATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: BEFORE THE
OPERATION WAS SUSPENDED, DIVERS
RECOVERED FOUR MORE BODIES,
BRING THE NUMBER TO 34.
OFFICIALS SAY THEY HAVE NOW
IDENTIFIED FIVE LARGE OBJECTS AT
THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA THOUGHT TO
BE REMNANTS OF THE PLANE.
THIS WEEKEND THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" QUOTED INDONESIAN
METEOROLOGICAL EXPERTS AS SAYING
THAT ICING INSIDE THE JETLINER'S
ENGINES MAY HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO
THE CRASH.
ISRAEL HAS WITHHELD THE PAYMENT
OF $125 MILLION IN TAX REVENUES
TO THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY AND
THREATENED FURTHER RETALIATION.
THIS, IN RESPONSE TO THE
PALESTINIAN GOVERNMENT'S
DECISION TO TRY TO JOIN THE
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT AND
TRY TO PROSECUTE ISRAEL FOR
ALLEGED WAR CRIMES.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU SAID TODAY ISRAEL
WOULD RESIST ANY EFFORTS TO
PROSECUTE ITS SOLDIERS.
>> (translated): WE WILL NOT
ALLOW THE DRAGGING OF I.D.F.
SOLDIERS AND I.D.F. COMMANDERS
TO THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL
COURT AT THE HAGUE.
THE ONES WHO SHOULD FACE JUSTICE
ARE THE HEADS OF THE PALESTINIAN
AUTHORITY WHO ENTERED AN
ALLIANCE WITH THE HAMAS WAR
CRIMINALS.
I.D.F. SOLDIERS WILL CONTINUE TO
DEFEND THE STATE OF ISRAEL WITH
DETERMINATION AND MIGHT.
JUST AS THEY DEFEND US, WE WILL
DEFEND THEM WITH THE SAME
DETERMINATION AND THE SAME
MIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE VATICAN
TODAY POPE FRANCIS NAMED 15 NEW
CARDINALS TO THE GROUP THAT WILL
CHOOSE HIS SUCCESSOR, MANY OF
THEM FROM ASIA, AFRICA AND LATIN
AMERICA.
THE SELECTIONS WERE SEEN AS PART
OF THE PONTIFF'S EFFORTS TO
DIVERSIFY THE CHURCH HIERARCHY.
OBSERVERS SAY TODAY'S DECISION
MAKES IT MORE LIKELY THAT THE
NEXT POPE WILL BE FROM SOME PART
OF THE WORLD OTHER THAN EUROPE.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THOUSANDS
OF POLICE OFFICERS FROM AROUND
THE NATION TURNED OUT FOR THE
FUNERAL OF WENJIAN LIU, ONE OF
TWO NEW YORK CITY POLICE
OFFICERS MURDERED TWO WEEKS AGO.
FOR THE THIRD TIME SINCE THE
AMBUSH KILLINGS LAST MONTH, SOME
POLICE TURNED THEIR BACKS ON
MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO, EVEN
THOUGH POLICE COMMISSIONER
WILLIAM BRATTON HAD WARNED THEM
NOT TO.
SOME ACCUSE THE MAYOR OF
CREATING AN UNSAFE ENVIRONMENT
FOR OFFICERS BY SUPPORTING ANTI-
POLICE DEMONSTRATIONS.
LATER IN THE PROGRAM, WE'LL GET
THE PERSPECTIVE OF TWO AFRICAN-
AMERICAN FIGURES ON POLICING OF
MINORITY COMMUNITIES.
DURING A TELEVISION INTERVIEW
TODAY, THE NEW SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER, MITCH McCONNELL SAID HIS
FOCUS WOULD BE ON THE ECONOMY.
>> WELL, I THINK JOBS AND THE
ECONOMY ARE CLEARLY WHAT THE
VOTERS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT.
WE NEED TO DO EVERYTHING WE CAN
TO TRY TO REIN IN THE REGULATORY
ONSLAUGHT, WHICH IS THE
PRINCIPAL REASON THAT WE HAVEN'T
HAD THE KIND OF BOUNCE BACK
AFTER THE 2008 RECESSION THAT
YOU WOULD EXPECT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND STUART
SCOTT, A LONGTIME FIXTURE ON
ESPN, HAS DIED AFTER MORE THAN A
SEVEN YEAR STRUGGLE WITH CANCER.
SCOTT JOINED ESPN IN 1993 AND
APPEARED REGULARLY ON ITS
SIGNATURE BROADCAST, "SPORTS
CENTER."
SCOTT WAS KNOWN FOR INTRODUCING
THE TERMS "BOOYA" AND "AS COOL
AS THE OTHER SIDE OF THE PILLOW"
TO BROADCASTING.
PRESIDENT OBAMA, A FAN OF THE
SHOW, SAID TODAY, "OVER THE
YEARS, HE ENTERTAINED US AND IN
THE END HE INSPIRED US WITH
COURAGE AND LOVE."
STUART SCOTT WAS 49.
>> Sreenivasan: AS WE MENTIONED,
CONGRESS RETURNS TO WORK TUESDAY
WITH REPUBLICANS IN CHARGE OF
BOTH THE HOUSE AND NOW THE
SENATE.
WHAT'S IN STORE?
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON BY NIELS LESNIEWSKI.
HE'S A STAFF WRITER WITH "ROLL
CALL."
SO DIFFERENT POWER PLAYERS
NOW AS ALL THE COMMITTEE
HEADS SHIFT?
WHAT'S LIKELY TO HAPPEN?
>> WELL, WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
SEE IN THE SENATE WHERE
THESE BIG CHANGES ARE
HAPPENING, OBVIOUSLY WITH
THE PARTY CONTROL SWITCH
MOST PARTICULARLY IS WE'RE
GOING TO SEE THE REPUBLICANS
GET RIGHT DOWN TO ONE OF THE
AGENDA ITEMS THAT THEY'VE
HAD ON-LINE FOR A LONG TIME.
AND THAT'S APPROVING THAT
KEYSTONE XL PIPE-LINE FROM
CANADA.
THE PIPE-LINE PROJECT CAN IS
GOING TO COME UP FOR
COMMITTEE CONSIDERATION
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY OF
THIS WEEK.
AND SO BY THE END OF THE
WEEK, THAT BILL SHOULD BE
OUT OF THE COMMITTEE AN BE
WELL ON ITS WAY TO THE
FLOOR.
NOW OF COURSE AS YOU NOTED
WOULD BE THE CHAIRMANSHIP'S
SWITCHING, LISA MURKOWSKI OF
ALASKA IS THE REPUBLICAN WHO
WILL BE THE CHAIRWOMAN OF
THAT PANEL EL.
AND WE'RE GOING TO SEE THAT
ALL OVER THE PLACE.
AND WE'LL SEE IT NOT JUST ON
LEGISLATIVE ISSUES, BUT
WE'LL START TO SEE A LOT
MORE OVERSIGHT HEARINGS AS
WELL IN WAYS THAT MAYBE THE
ADMINISTRATION WOULD NOT
LIKE TO SEE.
IF YOU ARE THE WHITE HOUSE,
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE PEOPLE
ON THE HILL ALL THE TIME TO
CONSIDER THINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO DOES THIS
SET UP A VETO TEST FOR THE
PRESIDENT?
WHETHER IT'S KEYSTONE OR
OTHER PIECES OF LEGISLATION
WHERE IT'S ALMOST A KIND OF
STRATEGIC TRAP IF LET'S SAY
REPUBLICANS CAN GET LOTS OF
LEGISLATION PASSED, GET IT
TO THE WHITE HOUSE'S DOOR
AND SAY LOOK, HERE'S THE GUY
THAT IS THE OBSTRUCTIONIST,
HERE IS THE GUY USING HIS
VETO POWER AND NOT GETTING
ANYTHING DONE IN WASHINGTON
SM.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE TEST, KEYSTONE WILL BE
THE FIRST TEST.
I THINK EVERYONE SORT OF
EXPECTING THAT THE PRESIDENT
WOULD, IN FACT, VETO THAT
ITEM.
THE TEST REALLY WILL BE HOW
FAR CAN THE REPUBLICANS GO
DOWN THE ROAD OF SENDING
THINGS TO THE PRESIDENT THAT
HE'S GOING TO VETO, GIVEN
THE FACT THAT THERE'S STILL
THE 60 VOTE REQUIREMENT TO
OVERCOME A POTENTIAL
FILIBUSTER IN THE SENATE.
AND YOU KNOW IF YOU DO
THINGS THAT ARE TOO AGAINST
WHAT THE WISHES OF THE
PRESIDENT, THAT YOU'RE NOT
GOING TOO GET THE HANDFUL OF
DEMOCRATS THAT WOULD BE
NEEDED TO OVERCOME THOSE
PROCEDURAL BARRIERS.
SO THERE SORT OF IS THIS
BALANCING ACT.
WHAT IS THE SWEET SPOT WHERE
YOU CAN FIND FIVE OR TEN
DEMOCRATS IN THE SENATE TO
GO ALONG WITH SOMETHING THAT
THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS AND
SENATE REPUBLICANS WANT TO
DO AND CAUSE A TOUGH
DECISION FOR THE PRESIDENT.
>> Sreenivasan : WELL, WHAT
ABOUT THINGS LIKE
IMMIGRATION OR THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT?
IS THERE SOME GIVE-AND-TAKE
THAT COULD BE HAPPENING?
>> WELL, I THINK
PARTICULARLY ON THE HEALTH
CARE LAW, THAT'S A PERFECT
EXAMPLE OF WHAT I WAS JUST
REFERRING TO BECAUSE WHAT
YOU'LL SEE IS VOTES THAT
EVERYONE KNOWS ARE DOOMED ON
REPEALING THE ACA OUTRIGHT.
BUT THEN YOU'LL ALSO SEE
WHAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE TERMED
LITTLE RIFLE SHOT TYPE
MEASURES WHERE THERE ARE
PROVISION OF THE HEALTH CARE
LAW THAT HAVE BROAD
OPPOSITION LIKE AN EXCISE
TAX ON MEDICAL DEVICE
MANUFACTURERS, THAT PROBABLY
IF YOU PUT IT UP FOR A VOTE
IN THE SENATE COULD GET
MAYBE 70 VOTES.
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY THE
NUMBERS.
I HAVEN'T COUNTED WITH THE
NEW SENATE.
BUT IT DID GET AN OVERWHELMING
MAJORITY.
AND THAT'S THE KIND OF THING
THAT COULD ACTUALLY CAUSE A
TOUGH TEST FOR ITS PRESIDENT
BECAUSE IT WOULD ACTUALLY
GET DOWN TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> Sreenivasan : AN THIS
DOESN'T HAPPEN IN A VACUUM
THERE IS STILL KIND OF IN
THE LOOMING PROSPECTS OF
2016.
THERE ARE SENATORS AN
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE,
PERHAPS THAT ARE POSTURING
AND POSITIONING THEMSELVES
TO MAKE A RUN FOR IT, SO
THIS IS REALLY THE
REPUBLICAN'S OPPORTUNITY TO
SHOW OFF WHAT THEY CAN DO
AND HOW THEY CAN GOVERN WHEN
THEY DO HAVE CONGRESS,
RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
AND SO WHAT WE SEE WHICH
WILL BE A BIT OF A TEST AS
WELL, IF YOU ARE THE
REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP IN THE
SENATE, PARTICULARLY, IS
DEALING WITH THE NUMBER OF
YOUR MEMBERS WHO MIGHT BE
POSTURING OR THINKING ABOUT
SERIOUSLY RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT.
AND THERE ARE TIMES WHEN
POLITICAL INTERESTS AND THE
NEED TO GET ATTENTION WILL
NOT ALIGN WITH TRYING TO GET
ACTUAL LEGISLATION ON THE
PRESIDENT'S DESK.
YOU CAN SEE SITUATIONS WHERE
A SENATOR WHO IS RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT SORT OF SEIZES THE
SENATE FLOOR AND SORT OF
TRIES TO
ATTRACTION-- ATTRACT
ATTENTION IN A WAY THAT IS
NOT WHAT SENATOR McCONNELL
OR THE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP
WOULD WANT.
AND THAT WILL BE ANOTHER
BALANCING ACT THAT WE'LL SEE
GOING INTO THE NEXT YEAR OR
SO BEFORE PEOPLE START
REALLY HEADING IN
EARNEST-- I KNOW THEY HAVE
ALREADY GONE SOME, BUT
BEFORE HEADING INTO EARN
TOAST IOWA AND NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
>> ALL RIGHT, NIELS
LESNIEWSKI FROM ROLL CALL,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AS WE ALREADY
REPORTED THOUSANDS OF POLICE
OFFICERS TURNED OUT TODAY FOR
THE FUNERAL OF SLAIN NEW YORK
CITY POLICEMAN, WENJIAN LIU.
THE MURDER OF OFFICER LIU AND
OFFICER RAFAEL RAMOS CAME AFTER
WEEKS OF NATIONWIDE PROTESTS
AGAINST POLICE.
FORMER NEW YORK CITY MAYOR
RUDOLPH GIULIANI HAS SAID THOSE
DEMONSTRATIONS CREATED AN ANTI-
POLICE ENVIRONMENT.
>> I DON'T THINK IT GOES TOO FAR
TO SAY THE MAYOR DID NOT
PROPERLY POLICE THE PROTESTS.
HE ALLOWED THE PROTESTORS TO
TAKE OVER THE STREETS.
HE ALLOWED THEM TO HURT THE
POLICE OFFICERS TO COMMIT CRIMES
AND THEY DIDN'T ARREST THEM.
THE PSYCHOLOGICALLY TROUBLED
GUNMAN WHO MURDERED THE TWO NEW
YORK CITY OFFICERS HAD MENTIONED
THE POLICE KILLINGS OF MICHAEL
BROWN AND ERIC GARNER IN A
SOCIAL MEDIA POSTING BEFORE HE
AMBUSHED AND KILLED LIU AND
RAMOS.
HERE TO TAKE A DEEPER LOOK AT
RELATIONS BETWEEN POLICE AND
MINORITY COMMUNITIES ARE L. JOY
WILLIAMS, PRESIDENT OF THE
BROOKLYN CHAPTER OF THE
N.A.A.C.P.
AND JULIAN HARPER, HE IS A
RETIRED NEW YORK CITY POLICE
LIEUTENANT AND WITH THE
ORGANIZATION, 100 BLACKS IN LAW
ENFORCEMENT WHO CARE.
SO THROUGHOUT THIS WE SAW
DEMONSTRATIONS NOT JUST IN
NEW YORK CITY BUT AROUND THE
NATION.
AND YOU SAW PROTESTORS
HOLDING UP THE SIGN THAT
SAID, BLACK LIVES MATTER.
WHY DO YOU THINK THAT IS?
>> THE BLACK LIVES MATTER
FOCUS AND THE YOUNG PEOPLE
THAT ARE DOING THAT ARE
TRYING TO RAISE ATTENTION
THAT THIS IS HAPPENING TO US
MORE FREQUENTLY THAN ANYONE,
ANY OTHER COMMUNITIES.
AND THEN WHY IS IT THAT IN
OTHER COMMUNITIES THEY CAN
HAVE POLICING THAT DOES NOT
RESULT IN THE KILLING OF
UNARMED PEOPLE.
LET ME SAY ALSO, YOU KNOW,
FROM A GENERAL PERSPECTIVE,
EVERYONE IS MAKING THE
CONNECTION BETWEEN THE
PROTESTS AND THE TRAGIC
DEATH OF A POLICE OFFICER,
BUT THERE IS NO DIRECT
CONNECTION.
IT IS NOT PROTESTORS THAT
WENT OUT AND SORT OF
COMMITTED THIS CRIME.
WE ALREADY KNOW WHO
COMMITTED THE CRIME.
AND WE CERTAINLY WANT TO
MOURN ALL DEATHS AND THAT IS
CERTAINLY WHAT WE ARE DOING
BOTH FOR THE OFFICERS AND
UNARMED MEN BEING KILLED BY
POLICE OFFICERS.
>> NOW THE NYPD WILL SAY
LISS ONLY, WE HAVE ONE OF
THE MOST DIVERSE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS IN THE COUNTRY,
IN ONE OF THE MOST DIVERSE
CITIES ON THE PLANET.
IS IT DIFFERENT FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICE
OFFICERS AND HOW THEY TREAT
YOUNG BLACK MEN OR
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER YOU
ARE BLACK, WHITE, BROWN, YOU
BECOME BLUE ONCE PUT THE
UNIFORM ON?
>> WELL, I THINK IT DEPENDS
ON THE INDIVIDUAL.
BECAUSE THERE ARE MANY
OFFICERS THAT ARE OF COLOR
THAT STILL HAVE THAT SAME
MIND-SET OF US AGAINST THEM.
SO WHEN THEY RESPOND TO
CERTAIN JOBS, WHEN THEY
RESPOND IN CERTAIN
COMMUNITIES, THEY STILL HAVE
THIS VERY HEAVY-HANDED WAY
OF ENFORCING, SO WHEN YOU
START TRYING TO DETERMINE
WHETHER IT'S A OFFICER
THAT'S WHITE OR OFFICER THAT
IS BLACK OR HISPANIC,
SOMETIMES THAT'S NOT THE
PROBLEM.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THERE IS
A MIND-SET AND THAT IS WHY
THESE PROBLEM OCCUR.
>> WE KNOW THAT COMMUNITIES
OF COLOR ARE OVERPOLICED,
WE KNOW THAT MEN OF COLOR
ARE OVERARRESTED, OVERCHARGED.
WE KNOW ALL OF THESE THINGS
TO BE TRUE.
AND SO IT'S GOING TO TAKE A
LONG ROAD AND A LOT OF
POLICY CHANGES AND MIND-SET
CHANGES.
AND THAT'S REALLY THE HARD
WORK.
IT'S CHANGING PEOPLE'S
MIND-SET.
AND I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT THE
MAJORITY OF OFFICERS WHO ARE
GOING TO THEIR JOB EVERY DAY
ARE GOING, THEY HAVE A
COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY,
TO THE CITY, TO THE JOB AND
DO THEIR UNIFORM AND WANT TO
GO AND DO THE BEST JOB AND
MAKE IT HOME SAFELY TO THEIR
FAMILIES.
I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT THAT IS
THE TRUTH.
HOWEVER, THESE SMALL BIASES,
THESE SMALL PREJUDICES,
THINGS THAT PEOPLE LEAVE
ACTUALLY HAS AN IMPACT ON
HOW THEY SERVE THE
COMMUNITY.
AND SO WHAT WE'RE SAYING IS
THAT WE WANT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO BE ABLE TO
POLICE ALL COMMUNITIES
INCLUDING COMMUNITIES OF
COLOR WITH THE SAME LEVEL OF
RESPECT, WITH THE SAME EVEN
HAND THAT THEY DO EVERY
OTHER COMMUNITY.
AND THAT'S NOT ANTI-POLICE.
>> SO WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL
OVERPOLICING, THE NYPD SAYS
IS EFFECTIVE POLICING.
THEY WILL PULL OUT THE CRIME
STATISTICS AND SAY LOOK, WE
ARE GETTING SAFER AND SAFER
AS A CITY.
AND ISN'T THAT ACTUALLY
BETTER FOR COMMUNITIES OF
COLOR WHO MIGHT BE
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTED
BY THESE SAME CRIME NUMBERS.
>> DEFINITELY WE HAVE SEEN A
DECLINE IN MURDERS.
BUT TO BE AN EFFECTIVE LAW
ENFORCEMENT, YOU HAVE TO
HAVE THE TRUST AND
COMMITMENT AND COOPERATION
OF THE COMMUNITY.
AND SO IF YOU CAN'T DO THAT
EFFECTIVELY F THE COMMUNITY
DOES NOT HAVE TRUST IN YOU,
LISTEN, I'VE HAD INSTANCES,
JUST IN THIS PAST YEAR WHERE
I HAVE HAD A GRANDMOTHER
CALL N.A.A.C.P. OFFICE WITH
HER YOUNG GRANDSON THAT SHE
TAKES CARE OF AT 14 YEARS
OLD, AND THAT A LOCAL GANG
IS MAKING HIM KEEP GUNS IN
HER HOUSE.
SHE DOES NOT FEEL
COMFORTABLE CALLING THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT BECAUSE
SHE DOESN'T TRUST THEM.
AND SHE'S ALSO AFRAID OF THE
GANGS THAT ARE IN THE
STREET.
WHAT KIND OF PREDICAMENT
DOES THAT PUT HER IN TO BE
ABLE TO NOT ONLY SAVE HER
GRANDSON, BUT ALSO PROTECT
HER LIFE.
>> THIS BRINGS UP THE
CONVERSATION, RIGHT T WAS
VERY INTERESTING THE DAY
THAT THE GRAND JURY REFUSED
TO PRESS CHARGES AGAINST THE
OFFICER WHO HAD THE
CHOKEHOLD ON ERIC GARNER,
WAS A PART OF THE PRESS
CONFERENCE THAT THE MAYOR
HAD.
WHERE HE BASICALLY MENTIONED
A CONVERSATION THAT HE HAD
AT SOME POINT WITH HIS
BIRACIAL SON.
>> WE HAVE HAD TO LITERALLY
TRAIN HIM AS FAMILIES HAVE
ALL OVER THIS CITY FOR
DECADES, IN HOW TO TAKE
SPECIAL CARE IN ANY
ENCOUNTER HE HAS WITH THE
POLICE OFFICERS WHO ARE
THERE TO PROTECT HIM.
>> WHEN YOU WERE A POLICE
OFFICER, EVEN NOW, DID YOU
HAVE TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION IN YOUR FAMILY?
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
AFTER THE ERIC GARNER
INCIDENT, MY SON CALLS ME
AND HE SAYS DAD, HE SAYS I'M
AFRAID.
HE SAYS IT'S AGAINST THE LAW
TO BE A LARGE BLACK MAN.
AND MY SON IS A RATHER LARGE
MAN.
AND I MEAN THAT REALLY,
REALLY BOTHERED ME.
I HAVE TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT
MY SON'S SAFETY.
AND I HAVE TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT HIS PERCEPTION OF HIM
BEING A LARGE BLACK MAN.
AND YOU KNOW, WE HAVE TO
HAVE THESE CONVERSATION.
NOW SI HAVE A YOUNGER SON
THAT IS 13 YEARS OLD THAT IS
A PRETTY BIG 13-YEAR-OLD.
AND HE'S VERY INNOCENT
CHILD.
SO HE WOULDN'T EVEN
UNDERSTAND AN INTERACTION
BETWEEN HIM AND THE POLICE.
HE UNDERSTANDS THAT HIS
FATHER IS A POLICE, HE
UNDERSTOOD STANDS HE HAS
TAKEN PHOTOS AS A CHILD IN
HER FATHER'S UNIFORM AND HE
WAS PROUD OF THAT.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY, THE WAY
THAT POLICE RESPOND AND
INTERACT WITH OUR YOUNG
BLACK YOUTH IS PROBLEMATIC.
OUR CHILDREN ARE AFRAID.
AND IT IS TOTALLY AGAINST
ANYTHING RELATIVE TO
POLICING THAT OUR YOUTH
SHOULD BE AFRAID OF LAW BE
EN-- LAW ENFORCEMENT.
>> YOU REALIZE SOMEONE IS
GOING TO WATCH THE PROGRAM
AND SAY HOW IS IT THAT A
POLICE OFFICER HAS TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH HIS SON
WARNING THAT SON ABOUT
INTERACTIONS WITH HIS FELLOW
POLICE OFFICERS BECAUSE
THOSE POLICE OFFICERS
INCLUDING MYSELF, WE SEE HOW
THE INTERACTION GOES BETWEEN
THE COMMUNITY, YOUNG BLACK
MALES AND THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
I REMEMBER ME RECENTLY GOING
TO A POLICE OFFICER, I WENT
TO ASK HIM A QUESTION.
THIS GUY GAVE ME A LOOK THAT
WAS SO ATTORNEY LIKE HE GAVE
ME A REAL STRONG, HARD LOOK.
AND I HAD TO IDENTIFY MYSELF,
BEFORE ANYTHING GOES WRONG,
THE FIRST THING I DO IS
LISTEN, I'M RETIRED
LIEUTENANT FROM THE JOB.
THIS IS WHAT IS HAPPENING,
THIS IS WHAT I WANT TO TELL
YOU.
AND THEN, HE STILL WAS A
LITTLE DISTANT BUT HE CAME
DOWN A LITTLE BIT, BECAUSE
HI TO EXPLAIN, LISTEN, I'M A
PART OF THE COMMUNITY.
I'M COMING TO YOU FOR HELP.
>> WE HAVE HEARD ABOUT THESE
CONVERSATIONS THAT MOTHERS
HAVE WITH HER TEENS, EVEN
POST FERGUSON, POST GARNER.
WHAT WAS DIFFERENT ABOUT
THIS, WAS THERE AN ADDED
LEGITIMACY BECAUSE IT WAS A
WHITE MAYOR STANDING AT A
PODIUM SAYING THAT HE HAD TO
HAVE THIS CONVERSATION.
>> YES.
>> WHEREAS AFRICAN-AMERICAN
FAMILIES SAYS WELL, THAT'S
NOT NEWS TO US.
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
DEFINITELY, THIS
CONVERSATION THAT WE HAVE IS
NOT NEW BUT THE DIFFERENCE
HERE IS THERE IS A WHITE
MAYOR WHO IS STANDING BY ALL
OF THE POWER THAT COMES WITH
BEING MAYOR AND SAYING THAT
HE HAD THE SAME CONVERSATION.
AND SO IT SOMEHOW LEGITIMIZES
SO CERTAIN COMMUNITIES AND
CERTAIN PEOPLE THAT THIS
HAPPENS OR AT LEAST BRINGS
IT TO THE FOREFRONT THAT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAS TO
BE ADDRESSED.
>> ALL RIGHT, L. JOY
WILLIAMS AND JULIAN HARPER,
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: IF YOU WANT TO
WEIGH IN ON RELATIONS BETWEEN
POLICE AND THE AFRICAN AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, VISIT
FACEBOOK.COM/NEWSHOUR.
NEXT WEEKEND: HOW THE POLICE SEE
IT.
WE'LL GET THE PERSPECTIVE FROM
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
IF YOU'VE GONE TO A BROADWAY
PLAY RECENTLY, YOU KNOW JUST HOW
EXPENSIVE A TICKET CAN BE.
STAGING A PLAY IS ALSO VERY,
VERY PRICY.
NOW, TO SAVE MONEY AND TO CREATE
A NEW EXPERIENCE, SOME PRODUCERS
ARE PUTTING ON PERFORMANCES IN
VERY UNLIKELY LOCATIONS.
ONE PLAY WAS EVEN PERFORMED THIS
PAST FALL ON THE GOWANUS CANAL
IN BROOKLYN.
A BODY OF WATER MUCH BETTER
KNOWN FOR SEWAGE OVERFLOWS AND
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION THAN
ANYTHING CONNECTED TO THE
THEATRE.
THE NEWSHOUR'S ZACHARY GREEN
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: COME TO TIMES
SQUARE IN NEW YORK CITY, AND
THIS IS A SITE YOU'RE LIKELY TO
SEE: PEOPLE LINED UP AT THE
TICKETS BOOTH TO BUY DISCOUNT
TICKETS TO POPULAR BROADWAY
SHOWS.
THERE'S A REASON THIS LINE IS SO
LONG.
GOING TO SEE A PLAY IN THE
THEATER-MECCA OF NEW YORK IS AN
EXPENSIVE PROPOSITION.
THE AVERAGE COST OF A BROADWAY
TICKET IS NOW OVER $100.
YOU CAN CHALK THAT PRICE UP TO
THE HIGH DEMAND TO SEE CERTAIN
SHOWS, BUT ALSO TO HIGH
PRODUCTION COSTS.
AND IN NEW YORK, ONE OF THE
BIGGEST LINE-ITEMS IN A PLAY'S
BUDGET CAN BE SUMMED UP IN ONE
WORD.
>> SPACE.
I THINK SPACE IS THE TOUGHEST
ONE.
>> Reporter: JOHN GOULD RUBIN IS
A THEATER DIRECTOR AND PRODUCER
WHO HAS BEEN PRODUCING THEATER
IN NEW YORK FOR ALMOST 15 YEARS.
HE SAYS THAT EVEN WORKING OFF-
BROADWAY THE ACTUAL PERFORMANCE
SPACE OFTEN MAKES UP THE BIGGEST
COST IN ANY PRODUCTION'S BUDGET.
>> GETTING A THEATER IS THE MOST
EXPENSIVE EXPENSE.
THAT'LL BE FOUR, THREE-- FOUR,
OR $5,000 A WEEK.
>> Reporter: A WEEK?
>> YEAH.
A WEEK.
FOR THE THEATER THAT YOU'RE
PERFORMING IN.
>> Reporter: THE COST OF SPACE
ISN'T JUST DRIVING UP TICKET
PRICES.
IT'S ALSO DRIVING ARTISTS AND
PERFORMERS TO SOME UNLIKELY
LOCATIONS IN THE SEARCH TO FIND
CHEAPER OR EVEN FREE SPACES TO
PERFORM IN.
THE E.P.A. ADDED THE GOWANUS
CANAL TO ITS LIST OF SUPERFUND
CLEAN-UP SITES IN 2010, AND IT
SAYS THE CANAL IS ONE OF THE
NATION'S MOST SERIOUSLY
CONTAMINATED BODIES OF WATER.
SO IT'S NOT THE FIRST PLACE YOU
MIGHT THINK OF FOR RECREATION,
LET ALONE PUTTING ON A PLAY.
BUT THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT A GROUP
OF LOCAL PERFORMANCE ARTISTS DID
IN OCTOBER.
FOR THREE WEEKS THIS PAST FALL,
THE GOWANUS CANAL WAS
TRANSFORMED BY NIGHT INTO THE
STYX, THE RIVER THAT RUNS
THROUGH THE UNDERWORLD IN GREEK
MYTHOLOGY, AS PART OF A NEW PLAY
CALLED "THE DREARY COAST."
>> I TEND TO WORK WITH SITES.
AND I TEND TO LOOK FOR SITES
THAT WILL ON THEIR OWN ENGAGE AN
AUDIENCE.
>> Reporter: JEFF STARK IS A NEW
YORK-BASED ARTIST WHO DEVISED
"THE DREARY COAST."
THE PLAY FOLLOWS CHARON, THE
BOATMAN IN GREEK MYTHOLOGY WHO
FERRIES SOULS THROUGH THE
AFTERLIFE AS HE ENCOUNTERS
DEMONS, GODS, AND THE DEAD ON
HIS TRIP DOWN THE RIVER.
>> YOU ARE NOT MY FRIEND,
HERMES.
>> Reporter: FOR JUST $35,
AUDIENCE MEMBERS COULD NOT ONLY
WATCH FROM THE BOAT, BUT ALSO
TAKE PART IN THE PERFORMANCE
ITSELF, DRESSED AS DEAD SOULS
BEING SHEPHERDED THROUGH THE
UNDERWORLD.
THE PLAY IS PART OF A GROWING
ART FORM CALLED SITE-SPECIFIC
THEATER, AUDIENCE IMMERSIVE
PRODUCTIONS THAT ARE BUILT
AROUND THE SPACE THEY'RE
PERFORMED IN.
WE SPOKE WITH STARK DURING THE
RUN OF HIS SHOW, AND HE SAID THE
REASON FOR THIS IS PARTLY ABOUT
ECONOMICS.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
GREAT ABOUT OUR SHOW IS THAT WE
ACTUALLY DON'T HAVE TO SPEND ANY
MONEY ON A THEATRE.
WE ARE OUT WORKING IN PUBLIC
SPACE.
>> Reporter: THIS ISN'T THE
FIRST TIME STARK HAS DONE THIS
KIND OF WORK.
HIS FIRST SITE-SPECIFIC PLAY
"I.R.T." WAS PERFORMED IN 2009
ON THE NEW YORK CITY SUBWAY.
HE FOLLOWED IT UP WITH "THE
SWEET CHEAT," A PLAY ABOUT A
POST-APOCALYPTIC NEW YORK THAT
WAS PERFORMED IN AN ABANDONED
WAREHOUSE NORTH OF THE CITY.
AND HE'S NOT THE ONLY ONE MAKING
SITE-SPECIFIC THEATER.
IN FACT, ONE OF NEW YORK'S MORE
POPULAR LONG-RUNNING SHOWS IS
"SLEEP NO MORE" AN AVANT-GARDE
RETELLING OF SHAKESPEARE'S
"MACBETH," PERFORMED IN THREE
ADJOINING WAREHOUSES IN
MANHATTAN DESIGNED TO LOOK LIKE
AN OLD HOTEL.
JOHN GOULD RUBIN HAS ALSO USED
THE SITE-SPECIFIC FORMAT IN HIS
OWN WORK.
>> I DID IT BECAUSE IT WAS MUCH
LESS EXPENSIVE AND BECAUSE IT
WOULD ENDOW THE AUDIENCE, WHICH-
- WITH AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT
EXPERIENCE.
YOU'RE IN AN EXPERIENCE IF YOU
GO TO THE THEATER WHICH IS ONE
THAT YOU'RE ACCUSTOMED TO.
BUT IF YOU GO TO A PLACE, THE
ADDRESS OF WHICH YOU'VE BEEN
GIVEN THAT MORNING BY A
TELEPHONE OR AN E-MAIL, YOU'RE
ALREADY PRIMED FOR AN UNUSUAL
EXPERIENCE.
AND SO, IT IS ECONOMICS.
BUT IT'S ALSO A WAY OF ENDOWING
THE AUDIENCE WITH AN UNUSUAL
EXPERIENCE.
>> WE ARE NOT HERE FOR YOU.
WE ARE HERE FOR THEM.
>> MAZEL TOV!
>> Sreenivasan: A PROGRAMMING
NOTE.
TOMORROW NIGHT ON MANY PBS
STATIONS, THE FILM "RICH HILL"
AIRS ON INDEPENDENT LENS.
IT FOLLOWS THREE TEENAGED BOYS
WHO ARE GROWING UP POOR,
STRUGGLING WITH ISOLATION AND
LACK OF OPPORTUNITY.
THE FILM WAS THE WINNER OF THE
2014 SUNDANCE PRIZE FOR BEST
DOCUMENTARY.
HERE IS AN EXCERPT.
>> I WAS THINKING ABOUT
MOVING TO CHINA.
MOVING TO CHINA AND BECOMING
AN ART TEACHER.
CUZ PAINTINGS AND STUFF-- I
WOULD BE THINKING ABOUT DRAGONS
ALL DAY.
>> I PRAY TO HIM EVERY NIGHT.
THIS IS WHAT GOES THROUGH
MY MIND.
GOD HAS TO BE BUSY WITH
EVERYONE ELSE.
EVENTUALLY HE WILL COME INTO
MY LIFE.
I HOPE IT HAPPENS.
IT'S GOING TO BREAK MY HEART
IF IT DON'T.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
TEXAS REPUBLICAN LOUIS GOMER
SAYS WILL CHALLENGE JOHN BOEHNER
FOR SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE WHEN
CONGRESS GETS BACK TO BUSINESS
THIS WEEK.
HE SAYS WE FIGHT AMNESTY FOR
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS TOOTH
AND NAIL.
OVERSEAS IN NIGERIA ISLAMIC
MILITANTS FROM BOKO HARAM
OVERRAN A MILITARY BASE AND
SEIZED THE LAST TOWN IN THE
NORTHEAST OF THE COUNTRY
REPORTEDLY UNDER GOVERNMENT
CONTROL.
MEMBERS OF A MULTINATIONAL
FORCE THERE ARE SAID TO HAVE
FLED AFTER THE MILITANTS
ATTACKED.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ON-LINE
TOMORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.